6 workouts per week / 45-60 min. per workout
Shortcut to Shred isn't easy, but you don't want easy. You want results. Beginner or advanced, male or female, this program will test you and transform you. Do the work, and you will surprise everyone—especially yourself.








What is the training style of Shortcut to Shred?

Shortcut to Shred is an intense, six-week plan built on six workouts per week. You'll use Jim Stoppani's favorite fat-burning techniques, including linear and reverse linear periodization, and cardio acceleration to keep your metabolic rate high even while you are at rest. In other words, you'll burn more calories during the workouts, but you'll keep burning calories long after you're done training.

This program splits each muscle group into two different workouts per week. During the first half of the week (Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday) you'll train with multijoint, compound exercises. For example, during your first chest session each week, you will only do compound exercises like barbell and dumbbell presses.

During the second half of the week (Thursday, Friday, and Saturday), when you train each muscle group for the second time, you will primarily use single-joint, isolation exercises wherever possible. For example, on your second chest day, you will perform dumbbell and cable flyes.

How should I warm up for my workouts?

Begin every Shortcut to Shred workout with a few minutes of fast-paced cardio. A quick cardio warm-up will get the blood pumping in your body and prep your nervous system, muscles, and joints for heavy weight and hard work. You never want to start a workout cold, so choose a movement like bench step-ups to get things started.

Warm-up sets of your first resistance exercise are also important and included in this program. When you lift in a relatively high rep range, one warm-up set is fine. As you progress through Shortcut to Shred and the weight gets heavier, you may need more than one warm-up set.

Be careful not to fatigue the working muscle while warming up. Your warm-up set should be light and explosive. You want to activate and engage your fast-twitch muscle fibers before you hit them with a lot of weight.

How heavy should I lift?

When it comes to your working sets, pick a challenging weight that you can lift for roughly 10 reps. If you can't get the last few reps on your third and fourth sets, don't go lighter. Keep the weight the same and do as many reps as you possibly can. The intensity and pace of the workout are sometimes more important than the number of reps.

If you need to adjust the weight you're lifting at any time, make sure you do it after your cardio acceleration exercise. As you start to feel more comfortable with cardio between your resistance exercises, make sure you don't get complacent and let the program get too easy. If you're not continually being challenged, you won't see the changes you want. Keep mixing up the cardio acceleration exercises, and keep pushing yourself through every minute and every set.

What is cardio acceleration?

Cardio acceleration is a technique that combines high-intensity cardio and resistance training into one fast-paced workout. Instead of resting between your lifts, you will do cardio between every single set. Simply put, you'll lift 1 set of a prescribed exercise, such as bench press, and then immediately follow it with 1 minute of cardio.

Cardio acceleration is critical to Shortcut to Shred. It will fire up your fat-burning furnace like nothing else. You don't have to run across the gym and jump on a treadmill or stationary bike, your cardio acceleration exercises can be as simple as running in place next to the bench. You can also do dumbbell cleans, step-ups, or any combination of full-body exercises. The only requirement is that you move for an entire minute.

Each workout will have recommendations about what exercises to perform for cardio acceleration. Here are some additional options:

KB Swing
Goblet Squat
Squat Jump
Box Jump
DB Step-up
BB Step-up
Sprints
Running in place
Medicine Ball Slam
Dumbbell Lunge
Lunge Jumps
Side-to-Side Box Shuffle
Sledgehammer Swing
Battling Ropes
Rocket Jump
Lateral Bound
Lateral Box Jump
Side Standing Long Jump
Mountain Climber
Jump Rope
Knee Tuck Jump
Diagonal Bound
Tire Flip
Skipping (in place)
Elliptical
DB Clean
Smith machine clean
Step-up with knee raise
What kind of weight should I use for cardio acceleration?

For the cardio acceleration movements, always use a light weight. These movements aren't meant to stress your muscles, they're meant to challenge your cardiovascular fitness. To keep the stress on your energy systems and not your muscular system, choose a weight that you can move for a full minute.

If you're new to fitness and find that a minute is too long, reduce the time to 30 seconds or go slower. The goal is to gradually increase the time you spend doing high-intensity cardio. To burn fat effectively, you want to keep each cardio acceleration minute as intense and demanding as possible.

Cardio accelerated rest-pause dropset: This intensity-boosting technique appears in the second half of the program. To perform a cardio accelerated rest-pause dropset, take the last set of each exercise to muscle failure. Rack the weight and perform cardio acceleration by running in place for 15-20 seconds. Then, pick up the weight and continue doing reps until you reach muscle failure again. Immediately decrease the weight by 20-30 percent and lift until you reach muscle failure again. You are now done with the set and ready to move to the next exercise.

How long is the rest between sets?

There is no prescribed rest in Shortcut to Shred. Cardio acceleration effectively replaces your rest periods in each workout. Take what rest you absolutely need, but strive to replace your rest periods with high-intensity activity. You'll move directly from cardio acceleration movements to resistance exercises.

What about cardio?

Instead of a typical cardio session after your workout, the cardio acceleration adds intense, cardio-based exercise intervals between each set of resistance exercises. This mix helps you burn fat and build muscle and eliminates the need for additional cardio sessions.

If you're worried about getting too tired from cardio acceleration to lift intensely, don't be. Cardio acceleration elevates your heart rate, which means more blood pumps to your working muscles throughout your workout. Blood delivers oxygen and nutrients, which enhance your body's ability to generate and maintain energy.

What should I do on rest days?

Shortcut to Shred is an intense fat-loss program designed to increase your metabolism and burn more calories after every workout. With the challenging combination of resistance training and cardio acceleration in every workout, your one rest day a week should truly be devoted to rest and recovery. You can use your rest day for stretching and light movement to help alleviate soreness, but steer clear of lifting or intense cardio.
