Your mission is to annihilate the old you and stimulate all the mechanisms that will grow the new you. Type 1, type 2a, type 2b—no muscle fiber will be spared. Day by grueling day, you'll exhaust each of your body's energy systems, leaving you with the only energy source that truly matters: your will. What you know about concepts like training intensity and volume will be challenged, cast aside, and redefined.

What is the training style in this program?

Kris Gethin built the Muscle-Building Trainer over the course of 15 years of working with some of the world's best experts and athletes like Neil Hill, Dorian Yates, Branch Warren, Hany Rambod, James "Flex" Lewis, and Jay Cutler. The training strategies and workouts within have been tested and perfected on Kris' many clients around the world and on his own physique.

You'll get a workout on each and every training day page, so you'll encounter most of the specifics as you go through the program. However, over the next 12 weeks, your training program will be broken down into these broad strategies:

Weeks 1-3, Y3T: Y3T is the brainchild of Neil "Yoda" Hill, creator of the immensely popular Y3T 9-Week Trainer. For the first week, you'll work in a relatively low rep range of around 8 repetitions. For the second week, you'll step up to around 12 repetitions. Week 3, however, is the legendary "annihilation week," where you'll use dropsets and other set-extending techniques to push the volume even higher.

Week 4, FST-7: FST, which stands for "fascia stretch training," is a revered training system created by Kris' good friend Hany "The Pro Creator" Rambod, who makes an appearance in the daily videos at the end of Week 3. In this training method, you will stretch the fascia—the sheath around your muscle fibers—while contracting the target muscle between every set.

Week 5, German Volume Training: Variations of what has become known as "German volume training" have been around for decades. What each variation shares is utterly punishing amounts of volume. The magic number is 100 reps, or 10 sets of 10 reps on each muscle group. Keep a partner on hand to count your sets and reps for you so you don't lose track of where you are.

Week 6, High-Intensity Training: Six-time Mr. Olympia Dorian Yates is the mastermind behind high-intensity training, which is also the centerpiece of the 6-week Blood and Guts program. After the high-volume onslaught of GVT, it might be difficult to wrap your mind around the idea of performing only one no-holds-barred working set for each movement. But that set will teach you a lot about how far you've come in the previous six weeks.

Weeks 7-12, DTP: For the last six weeks of this program, you'll be following the principles of DTP and DTPXtreme, which are the culmination of Kris's work in the Hardcore Trainer and DTP: 4 Weeks to Maximum Muscle. You'll encounter a lot of volume alongside extremely heavy weights, a brutal combination that will put your body in a perfect anabolic state. You'll also have to face rest periods tied to the number of reps you perform. So, if you were to knock out 50 reps, you'd only get 50 seconds of rest. Expect to be sore, expect to be tired, and expect to push your limits.

How should I warm up for my workouts?

Kris will often show how he likes to warm up for specific workouts and lifts in his daily videos. Otherwise, if a specific warm-up isn't stated, you can simply spend 5-10 minutes increasing your core body temperature by walking on a treadmill, jogging in place, performing calisthenics such as jumping jacks or toe touches, or mimicking the exercises you plan to perform using little to no weight. Warm-up sets of the first movement are also a great idea. Just remember, warm-up sets should not normally be counted as part of the prescribed sets and reps for the workout, which are often referred to as "working sets."

How heavy should I lift?

The amount of weight you lift for any exercise will always vary based on your current strength and fitness level, as well as the sets and reps of the workout. Unless otherwise specified, the best way to select a weight for any workout is to look at the recommended reps and try to pick a weight that is close to a "rep max" for that rep range.

For example, if you are asked to perform 12-15 reps in a set, select a weight that you believe you can only lift 12 times before reaching muscle failure. If you can lift the weight more than 15 times, add more weight in the next set or workout. If you can't reach 12, the weight is too heavy, so lighten up. It takes experience to find this sweet spot, and it can change over time, so don't worry if it takes a workout or two to find it in this or any other program.

What intensity techniques do I need to know?

Dropset: Take a set to failure, then drop the weight by 20 percent or more and go to failure again.
FST-7 set: Perform 7 sets of 8-10 reps, resting only 30 seconds between. Flex the target muscle during the rest periods.
Superset: Perform two exercises back to back with little to no rest between. A triset is three movements performed in this style. A giant set is four or more.
DTP Set: Perform high-rep sets in descending order, typically 50/40/30/20/10, adding weight with each set and resting around 1 min. between sets. Often, you’ll have to go back up the ladder again, stripping weight and doing 5 sets of 10/20/30/40/50 reps.
DTP Extreme Set: This is like the second half of a DTP set, but with rest periods matching the number of reps you just performed. So 5 seconds after a 5-rep set, 10 sec. after 10 reps, 20 after 20, and so on.
DTP Superset: Perform two paired exercises, alternating sets in a high-rep DTP-style format. Don't rest between the exercise, and rest 1-2 min. between sets. 
DTP Dropset: This is like a DTP extreme set, but with no rest at all! You simply hit your reps, for example 5/10/20/30/40/50, stripping off weight after each set like a continuous dropset.
DTP Giant Set: Perform three or more exercises, alternating sets in a high-rep DTP-style format.
What about cardio?

On workout days, you'll find specific recommendations for cardio at the end of your weights workouts. Kris also recommends staying active on non-lifting days, and will provide recommendations during those videos.

What do I do on rest days?

Definitely stay active! Kris is interested in creating healthy lifters, not just ones seeking size at all costs. But your rest days don't need to involve a treadmill or a gym. These are great days to get out in the world. Hike, swim, explore, play, and restore yourself before you head back into the gym to tear yourself down on Monday.

How do I deal with muscle soreness?

If you haven't been training this intensely consistently before this program, you'll probably be feeling some serious muscle soreness by the time you hit your first rest day. Don't worry: Muscle fiber damage is an essential part of muscle hypertrophy, even if it's not fun.

For your muscles to adapt and get bigger, they need to undergo stress. Soreness is a result of that stress. With proper rest and nutrition, the soreness will pass and you'll get bigger and become stronger. So be patient! That said, you'll still want to do some light movement on your rest days to help your muscles recover.




















Day 1 of Kris Gethin's muscle-building program starts with a bang: a hardcore Y3T leg workout. Don't expect to take it easy. Don't expect to start slow. Expect to train with focus, ferocity, and purpose.

Today, you'll head to Elixir Fitness in Mumbai, India, for the first time and begin your 12-week journey toward building a leaner, more muscular you. You'll see Kris train with deadly intent, and you should follow suit.

This week, you and Kris will take on the first week of Neil Hill's Y3T training program. These workouts are built primarily on compound lifts to prepare your muscles, tendons, and joints for a series of intense isolation exercises coming at you over the next two weeks.

Kris will walk you through the workout and the meals and supplements you'll need for the day. Follow what he says and you'll have no choice but to succeed!

Workout Notes
Before going heavy on the leg press, be sure to do 1-2 warm-up sets with lighter weight.
Kris likes to stretch his muscles between sets. If you've never stretched between sets, give this technique a shot!
It's vital that you hit failure within the required rep ranges. Select weights that will challenge you to do so.
Keep your rest periods relatively short; 60-90 seconds is plenty.
Read Gethin's Journal
Go inside the mind of Kris Gethin on the day he did this workout

The day of reckoning is here. Its time to slaughter my slumber and create life. Some people like to fornicate and give birth to human production, I want to go head-to-head with myself and multiply muscle fibers. The more I can batter myself into magnification mutation, the more life that will live inside of me. It makes the senses that much more astounding. life how it is supposed to be. Life will be how I want it to be.

I weighed myself in as 89.9kg on this morning. I want to get that number up to around 96kg but with a lot less body fat. If people think those goals are unrealistic, I am happy to continue to reside in my planet where it is.

The places where I push my mental capacity and drag my body will be unnatural to a human environment and circumstance. This is the only way we can attain unnatural results …..naturally. When people…the unbelievers…witness the change, I can predict the assumption of their insecurities.

I have my KAGED MUSCLE line of pre, intra, post workout and post workout supps packed. I have my gym bag full of accessories to keep me held together. I will push the limits to a thread….but never breaking. I'll continue this after filming.

7:45pm

Today was…interesting. The video crew were great to work with, Elixir Gym by Pradeep were more than accommodating, the heavy leg workout was on point, my hamstrings didn’t trouble me…..but I think I may have pushed it too far.. for day 1 anyway. I was surprised to be using the stack on a lot of movements considering it was my first day. All of the mental preparation and visualization came to the front and carried me. If everyone knew how to tap into it, it would be made illegal – I believe its that good. Its the most underrated and underused tool available to us.

Today was my first real workout in 4 months. The legs and abs workout took around 90 minutes and then I went straight into some HIIT. After we did the wrap-up video and I left. What they didn’t capture was me doing a crossfit class only 1 hour later. I want the video crew to capture me doing this class on the weekends so I figured I’d jump into a session today to prep myself and so I didn’t look a dick in front of the viewer.

Well, I think I already did a good job at that by wearing my compression pants I had to don (recommended on the first day by my physio). I definitely don’t have the Kai Greene or Lindford Christie package to justify lycra. Lets say I was nervous in front of the video crew. Hows that for justification?

The Crossfit WOD began with 10 minutes of squats followed by 7 minutes of dead clean squats, and then what seemed like an eternity of box jumps, burpees and chin-up circuits. 50 toe-to-bar leg raises finally finished me. I have a tendency of jumping deep into things. I end up either entertaining adaptation or regret. Tonight I am having a threesome of adaptation, exhaustion and overtraining.

I cant remember the last time I ate this much food. I was supposed to start on 3200 calories. I blew that about 1000 calories ago. Its all clean but my carcass is telling me it needs it. I’ll give it what its cries for or it will turn on me tomorrow.

I should pack my supps, food, gym bag and GoPro for tomorrow.










Even if your legs are dragging from yesterday's workout, you still need to get into the gym! Today, you'll follow Kris as he absolutely hammers his chest and triceps. Use his hard work in the gym as inspiration to crush your own training session!

In this video, you'll get a little peek into Kris's mindset. Although he feels frustrated at his strength levels, he digs deep and turns that frustration into positive energy.

Workout Notes
Before going into any shoulder or chest activity, warm up with some light rotator cuff exercises.
If you manage to only scrape out 8 reps on the first set of an exercise that calls for 8-12, drop the weight so you hit failure in the proper rep range.
During the negative portion of your reps, slow down. Make each negative take about three seconds. Then, explode out of the hole!
Take a few minutes of rest when transitioning between the chest and triceps exercises
Read Gethin's Journal
Go inside the mind of Kris Gethin on the day he did this workout

5:45am

I am pretty beat up. I feel I could sleep some more…but I never can. My mind always has too much in its mind. My legs aren’t anywhere near as sore as I expected them to be. I think I have mentally prepared for much worse. I have an unrelenting drive towards the pain, so I always want more than I can get. Maybe the Crossfit loosened me up.

Ever since I have implemented more cardio into my daily regimes, especially post workout, I have been able to better recover. It gives me an BodyFit Elite pass to drive my body further today. I have 12 chest and triceps left over the next 83 episodes. I wont be counting the reps and sets, but I am going to make every one of them count and I am going to make sure I pay for every one of them.

Today, tomorrow and the 81 days that follow are my shots at importance and purpose. I need to run into each one of those walls with ferocity. Mayhem, pain and manifestation isn’t something I will be running after or looking for. I have been holding those ers captive and they are coming with me. I am going to throw them at life every day. If I keep smashing them at any barrier put in front of me, they will stick.

4:30pm

So far I have eaten 20 egg whites and gluten free oats, 2 portions of salmon with sweet potato, basa fish and couscous, and a protein shake. I have another salmon and steak meal to go.

Chest and triceps are done. My patience is done. The workout was okay but I was frustrated because the weights that I used to warm up with were breaking me at failure. I got over it by the time I got to the 3rd exercise. I had to remind myself of what Neil Hill told me about week one – 3 second negative and blast out of the hole. I did that and by forgetting about the numbers on the dumbbells.

I lost myself deep into my muscle fibers, seeing my blood cells rush as the adrenaline kicked in, and I felt all my fears, tears hatred and anger get used as an internal combustion of fiber recruitment. It did the job, and I ensured that plenty of rest/pause principles set the tone to failure. Only if I fail will I succeed. I failed.

7:20pm Wow. I just had a session with a lifecoach. It was cool. I like how this particular person conducts her profession. Its very different from what I had seen in the general sense in western countries. Her approach was very spiritual and meditative. I dig that. I know its what I need. I think my previous paragraph prior to this session exploited that. I’m not allowed to talk to anyone for the rest of the night (that would be unlikely anyway.










Your shoulders aren't a particularly massive muscle group, but in order to hit them from every angle, you'll need to do a lot of reps. In today's video, Kris breaks down how to isolate your deltoid heads effectively, and shows you which portion of your delts each exercise emphasizes.

In this daily video, Kris will also provide some extra information about BCAAs and how they aid muscular recovery and repair.

Workout notes
Before going into any shoulder or chest activity, warm up with some light rotator cuff exercises.
If you manage to only scrape out 8 reps on the first set of an exercise that calls for 8-12, drop the weight so you hit failure in the proper rep range.
During the negative portion of your reps, slow down. Make each negative take about three seconds. Then, explode out of the hole!



Today, you'll start off learning how Kris makes a protein shake. If you want to build muscle like the master, pull out the ingredients and make your own shake before heading to the gym.

Once you're there, remember that the back is a complex muscle group that includes a wide variety of muscles, each running different ways. To make sure you don't neglect any part of your back, Kris demonstrates how to smash the hell out of every part of it.

Workout notes
Foam rolling your back before you train it can help loosen tight muscles before you begin lifting.
If you are starting to fail before you get to the target rep range, utilize the rest-pause principle. If you're getting tired at 8 reps, rest for a few seconds, and then knock out a couple more reps.
If you can, stick to doing the exercises in the order they're written. However, if a piece of equipment is being used, then move on to the next exercise and double back when it's free. Don't let anything stop you.



Training biceps is usually fun for everybody. You get a good pump and you get to flex in the mirror. Your calves, on the other hand, are much less sexy to train. That doesn't mean you get to be a baby and do fewer reps or sets. Hammer your calves as hard as you do any other body part. Toothpick legs don't impress anyone.

Your biceps may be sore from your back workout yesterday. If they are, you need to work on telling your back muscles, not your arms, to perform each and every back exercise.

The mind-muscle connection is a learning process, but it's an important part of building a better physique.

Workout Notes
Don't train on an empty stomach. You won't have enough fuel in your system to get through the workout or recover effectively. Eat 1-2 hours before you work out.
Warm up with a light weight before you start curling heavy. Prepare your shoulders and elbows for the heavy work!
You have the whole weekend to recover, so go hard today.
Because Gethin is as experienced as he is, he can be a little looser with his form. If you're a beginner or intermediate lifter, then do the movements as strictly as possible.
As long as your cardio is consistent and intense, don't be afraid to switch it up.


Gethin does a mobility class today to keep his joints and muscles supple, healthy, and able to move through a full range of motion. To build maximum mass and get the most from every exercise in the gym, you need your body to function and move optimally. While it's easy to underestimate the importance of active recovery, don't skimp on it.

Sleep is also incredibly important for recovery and growth, so you need to take it seriously. If you have the money, spend a little extra on a good mattress. To promote better sleep, it's also a good idea to make your bedroom as dark and cool as you can.

Most importantly, turn off your television and put your cell phone away before hunkering down for the night.




